If some curious reader, chancing upon this foreword to the narrative of
the life of Edward Simmons, should require my reason for calling it an
Interruption instead of an Introduction, I might reply with the obvious
evasion that so distinguished a painter as Edward Simmons needs no
introduction.
The recipient of medals innumerable, and the most flattering mention in
every European capital, surely should need no introduction even in his
own country, many of whose public buildings and galleries are enriched
by examples of his work in decoration, portraiture, or genre.
But this, as I have said, would be an evasion and not my true reason for
calling my preface an interruption, and since the curiosity that can
drive a reader to the perusal of matter that is essentially deterrent,
wholly superfluous, and probably dull must be of a persistence that will
brook no gainsay, I will make a virtue of compulsion and narrate for
that readerâ€™s private enlightenment a story of a very personal nature
concerning Mr. Simmons, the telling of which I had rather hoped to
avoid.
The story, in so far as it is related to the title of this preface,
speaks for itself, and since it bears upon a personal characteristic of
the painter, inherited, I am told, from generations of oratorical
forebears, a characteristic which also speaks for itself, I must ask the
reader to regard it as strictly confidential and to allow it to go no
further.